# Introduction

20 questions is a traditional game where a person (the answerer) thinks of something and another
person (the questioner) is allowed to ask 20 yes or no questions in order to figure out what the thing
that the first person is thinking of. The questioner must wisely choose questions that will provide them
with knowledge that will narrow down the possible answers. Variants of the game exist that only focus
on certain categories of things, for example animals, vegetables, or minerals. An electronic handheld
version of this game was released in the early 2000s called 20Q. The 20Q device uses a simple
knowledge based system in order to correctly guess what thing the player is thinking of.

This project is a prolog and python implementation of the 20 Questions game.

# Files Included

## animal_knowledge_base

A folder of prolog files. Each file contains prolog facts about a single animal. These files were generated by the csv_to_prolog.py file using the animals.csv file as an input.

## animals.csv

A csv file containing the animals and facts about the animals.

## init.pl

A file generated by the prolog_loader.py allowing the multiple prolog files to be loaded into the same knowledge base. 

## prolog_loader.py

Loads the prolog files contained in the animal_knowledge_base folder. 

## questions.py

Contains all the questions that the script can ask and connects them to prolog queires depending on yes or no answers. The questions also have attributes and dependencies. Dependencies require an animal with a certain attribute in order to be asked. There are two arrays. One with questions available to be asked and one with questions that can be unlocked when a prerequisite attribute is asked. 

## test.py

While building the project it became obvious testing the prolog statements would be necessary. Running test.py will run all the queries and then output how many animals are returned in each set. It will also catch errors in the queries. This file is very helpful to find queries that are written incorrectly.

## twenty_questions_chimpanze_poc.py and twenty_questions_failed_alpaca.py

These are my initial attemps. I first tried by thinking of questions that related to chimpanzee. You will find that the script correctly guess chimpanzee. I used the same set of questions for trying to guess alpaca but it did not guess correctly. This let to dynamically choosing questions in my final iteration. 

# twenty_questions.py

This is the main file to play the game. It will launch the game in the terminal and allow the user to answer questions by typing yes or no. For its 20th question it will guess an animal. 

# Instructions

Run python twenty_questions.py